README.md, before:

AUTHOR - Raman Sailopal

BACKGROUND - Linux command line utility to parse Nagios logs and import them into an Intersystems IRIS database global

The utility will allow a full import of the Nagios archive logs and then subsequent periodic import of the "live" nagios.log file set up off a cron job

PREREQUISITES -
                  A working Intersystems IRIS implementation
                  A working Nagios implementation
                  iriscmd - Attained from https://github.com/RamSailopal/iriscmd

PARAMETERS -
                  IRIS instance name - First parameter
                  IRIS namespace - Second Parameter
                  full - (optional) - Third Parameter - Whether to parse the archive files

USAGE EXAMPLE - 
                  
  To run for the first time, run:
                  
                  irisnagios "IRIS" "USER" "full"

This will process all log files in /var/log/nagios/archives

After the import of the archives, remove the full third parameter in order to process the "live" /var/log/nagios/nagios.log file only, and so:

                  irisnagios "IRIS" "USER"

This execution can then be set up of a periodic cron job

Taking the example host check line from the Nagios logs:

                  [1618182000] CURRENT HOST STATE: gateway;UP;HARD;1;PING OK - Packet loss = 0%, R
                  TA = 0.70 ms

This line would be translated to:

                  ^NAGIOS("gateway","1618182000","hostchk","date")="Mon 12 Apr 2021 00:00:00 BST"
                  ^NAGIOS("gateway","1618182000","hostchk","State")="UP"
                  ^NAGIOS("gateway","1618182000","hostchk","Check")="HARD"
                  ^NAGIOS("gateway","1618182000","hostchk","Info")="PING OK - Packet loss = 0%, R
TA = 0.70 ms"                  

   NOTE - The subscript "hostchk" is reserved for Nagios host checks and so try not to have service names with this reserved word

Taking the example service check line:

                   [1618182000] CURRENT SERVICE STATE: server1;CPU Temp;OK;HARD;1;sensor ok

This line would be translated to:

                   ^NAGIOS("server1","1618182000","CPU Temp","date")="Mon 12 Apr 2021 00:00:00 BST"
                   ^NAGIOS("server1","1618182000","hostchk","State")="OK"
                   ^NAGIOS("server1","1618182000","hostchk","Check")="HARD"
                   ^NAGIOS("server1","1618182000","hostchk","Info")="sensor ok"

NAGIOSREAD:

A command line utility is also available to parse the Nagios logs from the global.

   PARAMETERS: - 
              
            First Parameter - IRIS instance name
            Second Parameter - IRIS namespace
            Third Parameter - The host to search Nagios logs for (pass ALL for all hosts)
            Fourth Parameter - The service to search Nagios logs for (pass ALL for all services) - Pass hostchks to search on host checks and not service checks.
            Fifth Parameter (Optional) - The date to search logs from in the format (YYYY MM DD HH MM SS) - Pass 0 to search from the start of the logs 
            Sixth Parameter (Optional) - The date to search logs to in the format (YYYY MM DD HH MM SS) - Leave empty to search to the end of the logs.

INSTALLATION:

    git clone https://github.com/RamSailopal/irisnagios.git
    cd irisnagios/irisnagios
    ./install.sh

Commit message:

Added further details for nagiosread

README.md, after:

AUTHOR - Raman Sailopal

BACKGROUND - Linux command line utility to parse Nagios logs and import them into an Intersystems IRIS database global

The utility will allow a full import of the Nagios archive logs and then subsequent periodic import of the "live" nagios.log file set up off a cron job

PREREQUISITES -
                  A working Intersystems IRIS implementation
                  A working Nagios implementation
                  iriscmd - Attained from https://github.com/RamSailopal/iriscmd

PARAMETERS -
                  IRIS instance name - First parameter
                  IRIS namespace - Second Parameter
                  full - (optional) - Third Parameter - Whether to parse the archive files

USAGE EXAMPLE - 
                  
  To run for the first time, run:
                  
                  irisnagios "IRIS" "USER" "full"

This will process all log files in /var/log/nagios/archives

After the import of the archives, remove the full third parameter in order to process the "live" /var/log/nagios/nagios.log file only, and so:

                  irisnagios "IRIS" "USER"

This execution can then be set up of a periodic cron job

Taking the example host check line from the Nagios logs:

                  [1618182000] CURRENT HOST STATE: gateway;UP;HARD;1;PING OK - Packet loss = 0%, R
                  TA = 0.70 ms

This line would be translated to:

                  ^NAGIOS("gateway","1618182000","hostchk","date")="Mon 12 Apr 2021 00:00:00 BST"
                  ^NAGIOS("gateway","1618182000","hostchk","State")="UP"
                  ^NAGIOS("gateway","1618182000","hostchk","Check")="HARD"
                  ^NAGIOS("gateway","1618182000","hostchk","Info")="PING OK - Packet loss = 0%, R
TA = 0.70 ms"                  

   NOTE - The subscript "hostchk" is reserved for Nagios host checks and so try not to have service names with this reserved word

Taking the example service check line:

                   [1618182000] CURRENT SERVICE STATE: server1;CPU Temp;OK;HARD;1;sensor ok

This line would be translated to:

                   ^NAGIOS("server1","1618182000","CPU Temp","date")="Mon 12 Apr 2021 00:00:00 BST"
                   ^NAGIOS("server1","1618182000","hostchk","State")="OK"
                   ^NAGIOS("server1","1618182000","hostchk","Check")="HARD"
                   ^NAGIOS("server1","1618182000","hostchk","Info")="sensor ok"

NAGIOSREAD:

A command line utility is also available to parse the Nagios logs from the global.

   PARAMETERS: - 
              
            First Parameter - IRIS instance name
            Second Parameter - IRIS namespace
            Third Parameter - The host to search Nagios logs for (pass ALL for all hosts)
            Fourth Parameter - The service to search Nagios logs for (pass ALL for all services) - Pass hostchks to search on host checks and not service checks.
            Fifth Parameter (Optional) - The date to search logs from in the format (YYYY MM DD HH MM SS) - Pass 0 to search from the start of the logs 
            Sixth Parameter (Optional) - The date to search logs to in the format (YYYY MM DD HH MM SS) - Leave empty to search to the end of the logs.


   USAGE EXAMPLE: - nagiosread "IRIS" "USER" "server1" "ALL" "2016 02 02 00 00 00" "2016 02 02 00 00 00"
           
The above example will search all services for host server1 occurring at the exact date and time of 2nd February 2016 at 00:00    

INSTALLATION:

    git clone https://github.com/RamSailopal/irisnagios.git
    cd irisnagios/irisnagios
    ./install.sh
